Genesis 2, 24, says of a man and a woman who marry that they are to become one flesh.
Now that raises some questions. Whose words are those? What do they mean?
How can we show that we believe them? And is there a good example in the Bible of a couple who did?
Let's start with looking at the context. If you'd open your Bibles, please do Genesis chapter 2.
And we'll start with verse 18, Genesis 2.
The reports that Jehovah God said it is not good for the man to continue to be alone.
I'm going to make a helper for him as a compliment of him, continuing in verse 21.
So Jehovah God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep.
And while he was sleeping, he took one of his ribs and then closed up the flesh over its place.
And Jehovah God built the rib that he had taken from the man into a woman and he brought her to the man.
Then the man said, quote, this is at last bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh.
This one will be called woman because for man she was taken, unquote.
That is why a man will leave his father and his mother and he will stick to his wife and they will become one flesh.
So our first question is whose words are these?
Atoms?
No, the only words attributed to Adam are when he waxed poetic in verse 23.
And you can see that from the opening and closing quotation marks in that verse.
Well, then it must have been Moses words because after all he wrote the Bible book of Genesis.
No, he was not present at the time of the first marriage.
He did not start writing until some 2500 years later.
And even then he was writing what he was inspired to write.
Three Bible writers use this expression one flesh, Matthew, Mark, and Paul.
And it's Matthew who gives us the clue as to whose words they are.
So let's turn to Matthew chapter 19, Matthew 19, beginning with verse four.
And here Matthew writes and quotes Jesus.
It says in reply, he Jesus said, have you not read that the one who created them from the beginning made them male and female and said, quote, for this reason, a man will leave his father and his mother and will stick to his wife and the two will be one flesh, unquote.
So that they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has joked together, let no man put apart.
So Matthew makes a clear Jehovah said those words and shouldn't that elevate and everyone's mind the sanctity of the marital union.
As Jesus said, God created male and female to complimentary genders and he joked them together in marriage as one flesh.
Now it's interesting what the Bible exposition commentary says about this.
God established marriage and therefore only God can control its character.
It is a union between one man and one woman.
God did not create two men and one woman, two women and one man, two men or two women group marriages, gay marriages and other variations are contrary to the will of God.
No matter what some psychologists and jurists may say, no court of law can change what God has established.
And those are comments we can agree with.
Our second question is, what do these words mean? They will become one flesh.
Well, of course, the one flesh relationship certainly involves sexual union, but it goes beyond that because it includes a husband and wife who have achieved mental, emotional and spiritual harmony.
They are to have a oneness in their purpose and desires.
As Bible translator William Barclay renders it at Matthew 19, five, the husband will be joined inseparably to his wife.
So in marriage, a man and a woman are to become each other's closest partner in life.
Being one flesh means that they must always be thinking more of each other than of themselves, that they must consider each other in everything they do.
So when single people marry, they need to shift their thinking from mine to ours, from me to we.
And so they must stop being single at heart and come to be married at heart, not just on paper.
Our third question is, how can we show that we believe these words?
Well, sad to say many people these days take a very casual attitude toward marriage and when the relationship becomes strange, they just give up and walk out on their mate.
But that is not the Christian way. Marriage is to be a life-long relationship.
Just a few verses later on in Matthew 19, verse 9, Jesus taught that the only scriptural ground for dissolving marriage is one in innocent mate,
chooses not to forgive an adulterous partner.
And that is because sexual relations outside the marriage bond are a gross perversion of the one flesh union.
Now let's read Paul's words about this at 1 Corinthians chapter 6, 1 Corinthians 6, and verse 16.
He said, do you not know that anyone who is joined to a prostitute is one body with her?
For the two says he will be one flesh.
So the adulterer pulls away from his marriage mate and makes himself one flesh with a third person.
That then is the only scriptural basis for divorce.
But divorce is a very painful experience as one sociologist put it divorces drastic surgery.
To sever the one flesh bond between husband and wife would be like sawing oneself a sunder.
What though if no adultery has been committed, but for some reason, two people who are married to each other just don't like each other any longer.
Divorce is not an option.
Instead, they need to remind themselves of what attracted them to each other and work at rekindling those feelings while at the same time looking to Jehovah for help and not only strengthening their marriage, but also their spirituality.
Our fourth question is what scriptural example is there of a married couple who believe this one flesh idea?
Turn to Romans chapter 16 and verse three, please.
Romans 16, three.
Here Paul writes, give my greetings to Priska or Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus.
So yes, Aquila and Priscilla, what a model of a close and united couple living up to what Jehovah meant when he said that a husband or wife should become one flesh.
And Paul who worked closely with them could not think of that dear brother without recalling the faithful cooperation of his wife.
So it's a fine example for Christian couples today.
And in every one of the six references to this couple in the Christian Greek scriptures, we find them working together, cooperating without competition or strife and never is one mentioned without the other.
They constantly work together in their home and their secular work in the ministry.
And surely it was a time spent together in Christian activities that kept their marriage on a high spiritual plane working side by side to further the kingdom work.
Now you and your marriage may be a part for much of the day due to different work and responsibilities.
But can you find time each day to eat meals together to do household chores together to take walks together to be together to get caught up on what has gone on in your lives during the day.
Aquila and Priscilla prove that being united in activities related to true worship can keep a couple's thinking and goals aligned and that does strengthen a marriage.
For example, studying together, participating in congregation meetings together, sharing in the ministry together, praying together, in doing all of that.
A person's interests, priorities and habits will harmonize with those of one spouse until like Aquila and Priscilla, we increasingly think, feel and act as one flesh.
So now we know who said the words, it was Jehovah, we understand what they mean, achieving harmony in one's relationship with one's mate.
And we can certainly prove that we believe these words by staying close to our mate and maintaining our marriage bond and then we have that excellent example of Aquila and Priscilla to abide by.